# trendingfood_flutter

Food Trading Mobile Application is a flutter application (android and iOS) developed for Farmers, Representator, Transporter, Seller and Buyer. This application gives support to connect Farmers, Representator, Transporter, Seller and Buyer on one unit in internet in order to solving their community, management and transportation problems. Farmer or Representator can add their products with price, quantity, quality and place. Seller can get products in one place and purchase products their choices. Buyer can buy products online card payment and easy to find sellers. Seller can deliver their product to buyers’ home with the help of transporter. As well as for that, Buyers can any online payment methods using that payment easily.  
End-user want to have internet connection, smart phone (Android or iOS), and End-users must include correct product, if End-users have more complains from buyers, that End-users will be removed our system. I use Flutter as front-end framework, Spring boot as back-end framework, and MySQL as the Database. 


1.	Introduction

Agriculture is an important economic sector in Sri Lanka. It comprises mostly of paddy, pulses, vegetables and fruits. Plantation crops such as tea, rubber and coconut may also be included in the broader category.  Despite becoming an upper middle-income country in 2019, Sri Lanka still bears the triple burden of health conditions relating to underweight and overweight in addition to the presence of micronutrient deficiencies. In truth, with the population of Sri Lanka set to rise exponentially by the year 2030, so will the demand for food and proper nutrition. For context, Sri Lanka experiences moderate hunger in relation to global hunger levels, ranking 66th of 117 qualifying countries, according to the 2019 Global Hunger Index (GHI). The World Food Program in Sri Lanka recognizes under-nutrition, in particular, as a serious challenge in achieving a food secure future for Sri Lanka. This concern is further highlighted through the fact that, statistically, Sri Lanka has a 9% prevalence of undernourishment and faces a 195 kcal/person/day intensity in terms of food deprivation, according to data from the 2019 Global Food Security Index. These trends indicate an urgent need to address the challenges of food security and ensure equal access to proper nutrition among all Sri Lankans. In lieu of World Hunger Day, we take a look at Sri Lanka’s challenges in safeguarding food security and proper nutrition. 
As well as, we have the transportation problems that food transport from seller to buyer, farmer to seller like that. Buyer cannot find quality food with low price. As well as Buyer cannot find nearest sellers to deliver their food. Sometimes, farmer cannot find seller to sell their crops with best price. Some mobile apps help to decrease some of issues, but farmer don’t have enough knowledge and smart phone, they cannot use like these mobile applications. 
So, for resolving these issues, create mobile app to reduce these issues than other solutions. We connect Farmers, Representator, Transporter, Seller and Buyer on one unit in internet in order to solving their community, management and transportation problems. We introduce a representator to find farmers and get their crops and sell to sellers. Thus, farmer don’t want to find, deliver their crops to sellers. Buyer can find food according their location, deliver to home. 

2.	Project Description

According to user requirements, user want to internet connection, as well as, user must include correct product, if End-users have more complains from buyers, that End-users will be removed our system. We use flutter, because it a free and open-source mobile UI framework, as well as it can build iOS and Android from a single codebase with hot reload features. Also, End-users can simply download from Google Play store or Apple Appl store.  For deploy backend, I used more resources (Web App, Function App, Azure Firewall, SQL Database, Azure Storage, Azure Cash and Application Insight) from Azure cloud provider. I use spring-boot for backend server that is also an open-source Java-based framework used to create backend services. Thus, I can simply connect and manage all services with the help of spring framework. MySQL use as database server that store data in tables, So I can store and retrieve data simply. I use cloud storage for storing images that save by users. User send image as base64 to Azure function app, after it generate id for image and store image use this ID in Azure storage. Finally send image ID to backend server and that ID store in Database with other details. Thus, we can simply call image with the help of ID and Storage public URL. The Azure Cash helps to store temporary data for using multiple times. As well as Function App is more helpful store images in Azure Storage easily. Azure Firewall is more helpful to secure our backend servers from attacks.  With increase users, I hope to replicate web app according to traffic with the help of Application Insight that monitor app performance. 

2.2 Authentication


Now, we see how to do authentication for protect data. Firstly, user want to send username and password to authentication server, then after check validity, send token for client app. So, then, client app can send request for public server to get data. I use Spring OAuth2 that offered the possibility of setting up an Authorization Server as a Spring Application. OAuth2 is an authorization framework that enables the application Web Security to access the resources from the client. To build an OAuth2 application, we need to focus on the Grant Type (Authorization code), Client ID and Client secret. an OAuth2 enables the use of Authorization Server, Resource Server with the help of a JWT Token. So, all request must be authentic with token coming to public server. As well as, token expire withing little time duration, then client app wants again re-authentic with authentication server using refresh token. Thus, client user doesn’t want enter user credentials (username and password) after expire token. But, if user logout, then token delete from local storage, then user must send credential to login. 


